---
title: "Research Projects"
collection: archive
permalink: /projects/
venue: "IIT Gandhinagar, Electrical Engineering Department"
---

## Digital In Memory Computing (IMC) in 6T SRAM
- Duration: Dec 2020 - May 2023
- Performed Compute Disturb Analysis and Proposed Mitigation techniques for SRAM 6T-based Digital IMC
- Designed IMC Architecture including Decoder and Peripherals
- Designed Compute Circuits for performing bit-serial addition, multiplication, and MAC operation
- Designed a Compute-enabled Sense Amplifier that is robust to process variation

## Analog In Memory Computing in 6T SRAM
- Duration: Dec 2020 - May 2023
- Proposed a column-major analog IMC for multi-bit multiplication with minimal change in peripheral circuits
- Developed a compute-disturb free IMC architecture with high dynamic range and resilience to process variations
- Identified wordline degradation as a major source of non-linearity in analog and digital IMC
- Implemented four wordline shaping techniques to improve access time and reduce inconsistency in bitline discharge
- Proposed a novel process variation tracking method for analog IMC to compensate for process variation

## Simulator Design for Digital IMC
- Duration: May 2019 - May 2023
- Designed i-CACTI simulator for application-level analysis of Digital IMC
- Built FastMem simulator for accurate and fast SRAM modeling integrated with Digital IMC Compute Logic with Bit Serial and Bit Parallel paradigms of computation
- Built NeuroCACTI-IMC calculates performance metrics for in-memory computations for SRAM-based memory sub-system and observes 8X improvement in EDP for BPA and BSA by modifying memory array structure.

## Automatic Analog Circuit Design Tool using Machine Learning
- Duration: Aug 2020 - May 2021
- Utilized machine learning to model technology parameters for automatic analog circuit design
- Created a design space of circuits (Common Source and Two Stage Operational Amplifier) using the machine learning model
- Employed Bayesian optimization to find the optimum design in the design space
- Implemented active learning plugin for dataset generation when it was not readily available

## Developed SRAM Memory Compiler
- Duration: Feb 2020 - Sep 2020
- Analyzed the performance metrics of SRAM arrays generated by OpenRAM compiler in NCSU45nm, ranging from 8B to 4KB.
- Ported OpenRAM memory compiler to UMC65nm and UMC28nm at both schematic and layout levels, and performed a detailed analysis across multiple technologies.
- Optimized the performance of the complete Memory subsystem by properly sizing transistors in custom library cells and implementing circuit-level changes.

## Developed VosTrOF: A Unified Tool for Design Space Exploration of Approximate Arithmetic Circuits
- Duration: Mar 2019 - May 2020
- Designed VosTrOF, a tool that unifies four approximation strategies (Truncation, Overclocking, Voltage Overscaling, and Functional Approximation) for adders, multipliers, and dividers, enabling holistic analysis and design space exploration.
- Utilized VosTrOF for eight separate image processing applications and demonstrated optimized designs.

## Compression and Quantization of Convolutional Neural Networks
- Duration: May 2019 - July 2019
- Surveyed compression and quantization techniques for Neural Networks to reduce memory and compute requirement during inferencing.
- Implemented logarithmic quantization in Python for various neural net and analyzed the effect.

## A Deep Learning based Automatic Image Colorization Framework
- Duration: Feb 2019 - Apr 2019
- Used Deep Learning to colorize a grayscale image.
- Used class rebalancing at training time to enhance the diversity of colors in the output image.
- The system is implemented as a feed-forward net in a Convolutional Neural Network at test time and is trained on Imagenet Dataset.

## Xilinx Vivado Automation Using Python
- Duration: Dec 2018 - Jan 2019
- Automated Xilinx Vivado's Synthesis and Simulation flow using Python, Bash, and Tcl. Designed a wrapper which can simulate as well as synthesize a large number of RTL files and provide metrics in a single file.

## Heterogeneous SRAM Cell Sizing for Low-Power Image Processing Applications
- Duration: Oct 2018 - Nov 2018
- Designed an 8x8 array of 6T SRAM cells with 8 cells in a row of heterogeneous/different sizes.
- Simulated and performed read/write operation with the help of peripheral circuitry in Cadence Virtuoso in UMC 65nm technology.
- Designed a 1000X faster algorithm than the proposed to find optimum sizes for heterogeneous SRAM cells using the Dynamic Programming approach.
  

